docs/RunningServices.md, before:

# Running services from Pod

This documentation explains how Pod runs the services,
namely "downloaders", "importers" and "indexers".

### How to trigger
First, the Pod needs to receive a request to run a service. This is done via [HTTP API](./HTTP_API.md).

### What is triggered
Upon receiving a services request, Pod will extract the `uid` from the request and check that item with this uid exists in the database. Pod will then determine the relevant **docker image**, and run it with specific environment variables set (see below).

* For Downloaders, docker image `memri-downloaders:latest` will be run
* For Importers, docker image `memri-importers:latest` will be run
* For Indexers, docker image `memri-indexers:latest` will run

### How services started
Services are started via **docker**.
Pod will make sure the following environment variables are set for services running in docker:

* `POD_FULL_ADDRESS`, the address of Pod to call back, including "http"/"https".
  E.g. you can call `$POD_ADDRESS/v2/version`
* `POD_ADDRESS`, same of the above, but without the schema
* `RUN_UID`, the item `uid` that the service needs to run against. This item is commonly the first thing that the service requests from the Pod in order to understand the task and continue going forward.
* `POD_SERVICE_PAYLOAD`, a JSON that is taken from `servicePayload` from Pod-s HTTP request body, and passed-through to the service. The JSON is not escaped anyhow, and can be parsed directly.

Additionally, Downloaders and Importers will have a volue `/usr/src/importers/data` shared with them, so that files can be stored in that directory by e.g. Downloaders and read by e.g. Importers.

Commit message:

Improve/fix environment variables for Pod/services
This will differentiate the address on which Pod listens to requests,
and the Pod address that services will see in order to make the callback.

This commit only formalizes the difference and makes it clearer,
it was partly already the case before.

Additionally, default port value of 3030 was moved to a constant,
and docs were improved.

docs/RunningServices.md, after:

# Running services from Pod

This documentation explains how Pod runs the services,
namely "downloaders", "importers" and "indexers".

### How to trigger
First, the Pod needs to receive a request to run a service.
This is done via [HTTP API](./HTTP_API.md).

### What is triggered
Upon receiving a service request, Pod will extract the `uid` from the request
and check that item with this uid exists in the database.
Pod will then determine the relevant **docker image**,
and run it with specific environment variables set (see below).

* For Downloaders, docker image `memri-downloaders:latest` will be run
* For Importers, docker image `memri-importers:latest` will be run
* For Indexers, docker image `memri-indexers:latest` will run

### How services started
Services are started via **docker**.
Pod will set the following environment variables for services running in docker:

* `POD_FULL_ADDRESS`, the address of Pod to call back,
  e.g. `https://x.x.x.x:80` or `http://localhost:3030`.
  You can call the endpoints via a URL like `$POD_ADDRESS/v2/version`.
* `POD_ADDRESS`, same of the above, but without the scheme and port.
* `RUN_UID`, the item `uid` that the service needs to run against.
  This item is commonly the first thing that the service requests from the Pod in order
  to understand the task and continue going forward.
* `POD_SERVICE_PAYLOAD`, a JSON that is taken from `servicePayload` from Pod-s HTTP request body,
  and passed-through to the service. The JSON is not escaped anyhow, and can be parsed directly.

Additionally, Downloaders and Importers will have a volume `/usr/src/importers/data`
shared with them, so that files can be stored
in that directory by e.g. Downloaders and read by e.g. Importers.
